recording started go ahead all right
it's ipfs All Hands call for 15th on
January 2018 and I'd be a moderator
note-taker
hopefully we'll add himself to the list
yeah Frank will be a note taker should
we just go to the agenda David is that
okay all right so we started recording
are there any additional agenda items
anyone won't start or can we continue
all right I think we are good let's
start with RFC for idea first class time
okay thanks Lionel so hi everybody up to
the class we want to show Hector and I
had been working on a proposal for a new
feature in ipfs cluster which we call
charting and the quick summary is that
we've been working on planning out how
to get files and more generally bags
with across multiple nodes of an IPS
cluster and at this point we've you
finish up the RFC I guess okay at this
problem the motivation behind that to
get a little bit of background is for
number one supporting files they're too
big for a single IP offense Ruffo and
number two being able to support the
basic functionality for more
sophisticated fault tolerant
applications so at this point the RFC is
pretty like it's premature and we would
like comments from other people the two
major groups that we'd like to hear back
from are people with in-depth knowledge
of go ipfs specifically able to know a
lot about importers decks garbage
collection and then the second group
while we really like feedback from our
people with more of a user mind so
people that are like using ipfs profiles
and the link is in the notes it's
sympathy epidemic folks it's the most
recent
shoe HT 278 and we'll leave it open for
probably a week or two I know a lot of
you were busy this week but maybe I'll
see you again next week
but yeah any comments appreciated any
questions or now please - alright
mmm good question explains mine I had we
had like a small wing on the browser
extension front yeah yeah a big one we
got maybe a little background for a
little background that protocols can
someone not himself
alright so for a little background
you
the title fries for everyone or just
says yep all right
hmmm perhaps
[Music]
well what is the next agenda item which
is not final I guess there is none
let's wait I mean it to see if he if he
joins again
we can perhaps do a demo and then
Rebecca did
all right shall we do a demo and then
come back to the browser items sounds
good see some thumbs up so matchy are
you ready for the first demo yes awesome
welcome and yeah thank you for bringing
two demos today go ahead and pick one so
I have been working on the kitchen node
Trust which is basically a way to give
the peer to peer nodes as it is is an
certificates and it enables to today
miss browser notes to connect to other
little peer nodes without the need of a
relay or star server and also an HTTP
web sites so I have this tiny demo page
and arms launches node it connects to
the server which I can also turn me off
then directly connect discuss another
node and connects it not using DNS and
SSL so your attitude discovery request
and the server gave the note the idea of
the other node and a connection was
established and so maybe around this
this is the client to the p2p no trust
fine it's currently more of a egg so it
has fins outside of the actual clients
to make it work for example it has two
it's a connection event on under
listener TCP to make the listening part
work because currently no no transports
nervousness can be added to repeat at
runtime and I'm searching for it maybe
I'm just blind to find it oh yeah yeah
so this part is heck and sisters I think
and gods no it's not I don't know I can
find it but yeah this name is basically
to remove the relay and star summer and
to remove to mint have two critical circ
so good so nodes can connect to other
nodes without the need of a circuit
server and this works using let's
encrypt white card certificates
currently I have a certificate that's
not within it and yeah and it's in quick
will start offering white cut
certificates from Tuesday February 27
and that's when it could get into
fraction if yeah I also don't know if
this will get into production so I've
basically download everything I've made
so far and now is time for questions
alright thank you so much for the demo
um I've been following the developments
on that trust for a while and if I
understand correctly mainly what this
enables is to generate certificates on
the fly so that browser loads are
basically the browser runtime doesn't
complain when we try to
dial to an on domain non pls notes from
an HTTP server domain right yes and it
also provides DNS but I had to change
the path words generate certificates
because that would require on public key
infrastructure and getting improved as a
certificate authority and that's a bit
expensive that's why I'm using less and
could quite cut certificates instead I
could remove the common name and only if
- I can't listen to the kids so nobody
could smoke the website and then it
would be safe because it's encrypted
anyway mm-hmm okay so if I'm running a
node in my machine can I get well there
is no relay in point right so then what
I get is just a certificate for my
listener so first you note request a
certificate 10 it requests genus update
that gives the node to write up the
decision yes or no also gets domain name
hmm okay
so then when announcing that multi other
to the network then it also has to know
that it can be accessible by a new multi
other which is this new DNS name which
also has a certificate actually yes I
think he called the summer in here yeah
yeah and so it's great for a lot of the
nodes that are spoken in public
addresses but you still need some kind
of relay feature to go and reach two
nodes that are behind mats right yes and
this is basically an extension so the
service doing circuit won't be
overloaded and this will have the
network turned in understand the last
part to them so it will not overload the
network by using oil denotes
circuits but instead we'll do direct
connections icse because like if they
know these are my public IP then we can
just direct connect because we went over
the hump that the browser is set for us
which is it has to be at ssl/tls enabled
endpoint that is also using anyway but
you still need to I pour out of the non
public IP listening notes yes if a net
forwarding gets added to the
peer-to-peer this could be less of a
problem because most route to support
your P and P so even more nodes could
get public interesting okay so you use
something like that a Medina's plus
certificates to go okay that's cool can
you have certificates for processes that
are we seen behind the net sorry I
didn't understand yeah I actually I'm
not aware if if I have a process running
on my local machine and if I set up
dynamic DNS for that process so
basically I applied the domain name
every time I acted changes of my local
machine because it's running on my house
a lot on public you all about the sitter
doesn't have a static IP can I set up as
SSL certificate for that it can be done
by modifying or physically adding
transport this is what I'm using here so
it creates a listener but with the
certificate and key and this
automatically is as it's an enabled okay
yeah
oh yeah it sounds doable I see someone
he's here Victor regarding everything
why not yeah like I don't know vicar
perhaps I don't know any like any case
there where that was done so let's edit
who I am I'm just asking like easy
possibility is it not if they're much
setting up dynamic DNS requires a few
steps to be taken and this basically
automates all the things so it gets done
immediately without any user intact
should try it
alright this is pretty cool so how easy
it is to set up this do that sorry I
didn't get the last word um how can
users try node for us today do they have
to have a custom version of we live here
no actually just the module needs to be
plug in the right places
so here it's somewhere here it creates a
[Music]
third rate so discovery then print no
trust note with that discovery and
that's basically everything that it's
plugged in and also D which address
needs to be added and the dis now has to
be added but with a few changes to the
kit appear so transpose can be added
even why I did notice running this could
be fully automated so on just as soon
you know trust swarm and that's
everything alright pretty cool any other
questions I see Johnny he's really yeah
I think so you're using let's encrypt to
actually just as the certificate
authority
so you're he's creating a dynamic DNS
and and so it still needs to be signed
by a central authority in order for it
to be trusted so
and I think that's going to do B's
question is like how are you getting an
external node in order to validate the
IP at or at least the external facing IP
address to sign a certificate
I'm just getting one wide cut
certificate funny for all these abdomens
and I'm giving every node the same
certificate because ipfs internally
encrypts me with secure also it doesn't
matter anyway so in the beginning it was
using a certificate authority and still
is using locally but I have also added
just something that drops white cat
certificates to the nodes and there's
our self signed currently they are self
signed but let's encrypt we'll we'll
start offering designs wife got
certificates from February 27th okay
cool
one thing you could consider doing to
avoid having to update DNS is to just
use IP address dot domain name and let
it was pick whatever domain they want
our features they want the problem is
destined to be a certificate that's
valid for that and that's in Kryptonian
supports doing the certificate change or
DNS or HTTP so my point is if we had a
wildcards fate you just give everyone a
wildcard certificate yes
and then you just then they can pick
whatever domain you never just like pick
their IP adjust domain and DNS but then
route people to that IP address if you
have no security but you're not trying
to get security right you're actually
working around security so this is just
a hack to actually get about did we work
validly in the browser we're just still
trusting the security to be in the de
hashing in the encryption that's
intrinsic to ipfs all right yes just a
hack so we just where it's just creating
a certificate to create a certificate so
we
have something but actually the
intrinsic security of ipfs is all
encrypted and should be trusted yes this
is exactly but my point is if you
already have wild card certificates you
don't have to have people register
domains you can just have them use their
IP address dot your top-level domain in
which case the wild card to be able work
for that so the people just use the
domain they want because that's like
that's the domain that their own traffic
strategy so make sense like you make it
to someone looks up IP address dot
domain name they get that IP address so
sorry for for jumping in Stephen um so
it feels like we there's a lot of
questions here and that we should follow
up on this perhaps in another medium I
have to heat a tissue or I get a triple
matchy is there a ripple where people
can go to us sorry shoo
yes right and if you do not trust repo
questions can be asked and about the
part with the maintenance they're
getting but never Trevor domain name but
everything that matches to Whitecap
could be used as a domain name but to
keep them unique
I'm hashing pure ID so that nobody can
just use the domain name of that
knowledge all right so just for the sake
of time well it's like table that
discussion to the github issue and then
I could form more of that asynchronously
so that we have time to go to the other
items on the agenda that's good
yeah when people want a schedule a call
to discuss it dive deeper into stuff
we're totally welcome to at issue all
right so back to the agenda why now are
you ready
he's your initial good again I hope so
yeah let's hope it won't like break
again I think I was at the first one
whitelisting of our custom protocols so
just to quickly
finish this one so far the way it works
so far was that all custom protocols had
to be prefix it prefixed by web class
and that made things more complicated
than they should and starting with
Firefox 50 15 9 or we will have ability
to register simplified with the Iraq
based handles for those protocols
o'keefe sik NS and develop without
prefix and that means we will also have
support for those protocols on the
Android using Firefox for Android right
now it does not work the hack that
enables us to support those protocols
works only on desktop so start with
Firefox 59 will have kinda native
protocol still the origin stuff will not
be solved like the way the origins were
calculated will still work like for any
regular site but still it's a step in
right direction we won't have to use
prefixed protocols anywhere at least
feel under Firefox 5 and another item
for my end is like quick summary of UX
or GUI efforts when it comes to IDF s
it's mostly summary of current
developments around browser extensions
but we also discuss and push some things
like integration with brave browser
which enables us to support much more
than we can in Firefox so if anyone is
interested in current status snapshot
there's a short comment I think as a
tldr and if anyone is interested in user
experience or it's not like if someone
is interested in in user experience as
user experience expert or maybe you as a
user we would appreciate some feedback
for two two efforts we are pushing
currently one is to flesh out user
journey especially the initial one
onboarding so if anyone has any ideas
how this sampling could be improved we
already have a working document if you
don't have access to that document
please request we will provide you
access what we want to do is to cover as
much as possible different ways we can
introduce user to ipfs and which we want
to do is to create one very easy journey
for that user and we wanted to provide
user with good examples why ipfs it is
useful to non-technical user we think we
can't provide some added value for that
and we want to design entire journey
starting with landing on the idea first
i/o and going to getting static
instructions so that's one thing we
appreciate some feedback and another one
is we have initial draft of ipfs brand
book guidelines it's like initial
document that will be used for static
conversation about how we want visual
sight of our application so that would
be a browser extension ipfs desktop
which was called idea fest action before
probably web UI will also be redesigned
to follow this one visual style guide
and this brand book is a first step in
that direction we wants to like
establish initial the common language
common vocabulary for creating user
interfaces and if anything looks weird
or maybe if you want to request some
clarification or
guidelines for specific use case in
application you have in mind it can be
an imaginary application you can provide
some feedback there and yeah that's
that's all from my end and now I think
it will be okey arse and much
just letting everyone know that there is
um so the working groups are still
working on their okie hours and they're
gonna be firmed up this week so they're
already they already have drafts put
together and then we'll be reviewing
them so they're still subject to change
but if you have comments that you'd like
to put in the now is the time because
okay ours get seals about a week from
now make sure to get locked in stone and
then those are the okay okay recorders
so we can measure against them at the
end of the court um you know I'll put
the link to the spreadsheet in here in a
moment so it's just like a PSA for those
who who aren't already following along
with you okay okay do we have any demos
left because I dropped out so I don't
know how much did you do yes duplex demo
for me all right
let's go with you flex so I heard that
cakes one of the mood cakes this was
basically a fork of a fork of another
multiplexer and so I decided to make one
in like two hundred lines of code and
it's not entirely finished but it works
and which does its thing so I don't have
much to demo because this is a
multiplexer so this is a debug output
and it says data and it works and this
can also be integrated into the
peer-to-peer as I have already done and
it seems faster than other multiplexer
circuit build kids currently using
do you have a documentation on the
protocol I haven't written any tear
ducts right now but there are some
comments right now so the protocol is
vanity protocol by fast paced and does
it pass the street multiplexer tasks set
me up
I'm checked them yet but the fast I was
intending the API it seemed like it
should it's also put in native just so
it sends packets to the state state zero
means that data will get appendage to
Razak heads one means that it opens a
socket and to me but it closes the
socket and it's really simple
do you have a local versus remote closed
setup and what local closed versus
remote closed so if you open a stream
right and then close the stream the
other person is able to read the data
until you f
yes I have already tested this I haven't
edited attention because I wasn't
working on this very actively and it is
like two months ago for ten hours or
three hours and to the never work again
so far currently one thing that doesn't
work is when the other side closes the
connection but it's just a few lines
missing
anybody any questions
let's get cool stuff alright so I think
the last demo will be large with Doc's
portal next week that was a fast you can
click the yeah otherwise next week I
just copy paste it to the next notes
[Music]
okay so I think I think we are good is
anything anyone wants to add or ask or
discuss okay so I think we can finish
this one and dub it I'm not sure how
this recording stuff works so I'll
unique to the ipfs channel so after
stopping isabgol takes a little bit to
render the whole video and then i just
have to have a good Wi-Fi connection to
pull it to the ipfs youtube channel
alright alright in that case thank you
everyone for for calling in and see you
next week yeah baiting the demos thanks
everyone
Jarek